# Introduction

## What is uTradeFi?

uTradeFi allows investors to create **synthetic trackers** or **sTrack** across multiple asset classes. Investors define their trading rules by setting up **smart trading logics** that are executed automatically according to the instructions. Investors can setup various trigger points when defining their trading strategies to maximize their profits under different scenarios: e.g. **profit taking** triggers when a high price trigger is reached, **stop loss** triggers if a low price is reached, **buy backs** triggers for sell orders, etc.

> Investors create their own synthetic trackers to take advantage of their proprietary asset allocation and trading strategy.

## What is unique to uTradeFi?

It's based on a peer-to-contract trading model where synthetic trackers are minted and burned accordingly to the investors trading activity, without buying, minting or holding the underlying assets. **sTrack** are onchain representation of the underlying basket it's tracking, including its composition and exposure. The creation of the synthetic trackers is insured by smart contracts on the blockchain.

> sTrack are onchain representation of the basket it's tracking: symbols and exposures

By design, the protocol is a "closed" system based on the redistribution of the risks between 2 set of actors: the **investors** themselves which naturally will create some diversification effects and the **pool performance underwriters** which are responsible for the overall performance of the investment pool. This unique setup ensures that all actors making money are paid from the one losing, ie between investors and underwriters.

> uTradeFi is based on an ingenious redistribution mechanism where gains and losses are cleared amongst the actors of the protocol: the investors and the pool performance underwriters

## To whom is it addressed to?

It's addressed to all **investors** who want to make money by setting up winning trading strategies across a large trading universe, without the hassle to hold the underlying assets. uTradeFi allows the creation of synthetic trackers or **sTrack** in a simple way that mimic the performance of the underlying assets. Investors benefit from the profits generated by these synthetic trackers. Investors might face losses if poor investment decisions are made where the synthetic trackers underperform the reference asset.

> uTradeFi is addressed to all investors capable of creating profits with smart investment strategies

It's also addressed to all actors that want want to earn fees by assuming the overal performance of the pool. The **pool performance underwriters** earn fees collected from the investors (trading fees and performance fees) but assume the net pool performance risk.

> uTradeFi is also addressed to all underwriters that want to earn fees while being exposed to the net performance of the synthetic tracker pool

## What are synthetic trackers or sTrack?

sTrack is the **symbol** for the synthetic trackers created by protocol. Each tracker is unique as it's customized to the investor trading strategy. Therefore sTrack is a non-tradable asset that can't be transferred or traded outside uTradeFi. sTrack are "non-fungible non-tradable" assets. Each synthetic tracker can be redeemed in their ETH equivalent value. There are no limitation for the monetization of the synthetic trackers and is allowed 24/7.

> sTrack are non-fungible non-tradable synthetic trackers

## How do I create my own sTrack?

Synthetic trackers or sTrack are created as soon as investors bring their **investment capital to the protocol**. Once the investment capital is transferred to the protocol, a unique sTrack is created with a default asset allocation. The investors can then amend the synthetic tracker to reflect their own trading strategies.

Ether is the only currency accepted by the protocol as investment capital. ETH is defined as the reference asset to calculate the profit and losses of each synthetic tracker. All mark-to-market gains and losses of the synthetic trackers are cleared in the reference asset currency.

> Bring Ether to the protocol and start defining the asset allocation of the synthetic tracker

## How do I make money?

Each investor will then amend the composition of the synthetic tracker by deploying the investment capital to other asset types which will hopefully **outperform the reference asset** (e.g. convert ETH to BTC). If the value of the tracker is above the amount of trading capital transferred, a gain was generated and the investor is in a position to capitalize that gain by redeeming the tracker to unlock it's trading capital and corresponding gains.

## Can I sell my sTrack to someone else?

No, synthetic trackers or sTrack are **locked in the protocol** and can't be traded outside. However they can be liquidated at any time by converting the underlying assets into their ETH equivalent price and the initial investment capital freed up accordingly. The burning of the sTrack is executed by the investors with the investment capital automatically transferred back. This gives the investors the capability to exit the system at any time and have their funds back (adjusted with the potential gain and losses of their past investments).

> No, sTrack need to be burned to free up the investment capital transferred initially to the protocol

## How much does it costs?

uTradeFi pricing is fairly simple:
* a flat fee of 10bps (tbd) for each transaction is collected (for buy/sell, shorts and all type of advanced trade)
* a performance fee of 30bp (tbd) is also collected if the synthetic tracker generates a positive gain (on the gains only), ie outperform the reference asset

## Who receives the protocol fees?

The fees collected are distributed to the underwriters which assume the overall risk of the investment pool. This ingenious fee redistribution gives a strong incentive to the underwriters to assume the overall risk of the investment pool.

## How much gains and losses are covered by the protocol logic?

The protocol allows each sTrack to lose 80% (tbc) of its value before being automatically liquidated (if no actions are taken by the investors). The automatic conversion into the reference asset (Ether) is executed with smart contracts to mitigate future losses.

The protocol guarantees an increase of 80% (tbc) of the overall investment pool size if no specific actions are taken by the pool performance underwriters. This means that if all the pool was invested in non-Ether assets, the protocol would guarantee a performance of 80% above Ether before liquidating the position of the underwriters and investors.

## What are the main risks?

The main risk is market risk, i.e. the risk to lose money with bad investment decisions.
